# Microservices Suite

## Overview

Welcome to the Microservices Suite project! This suite is a collection of Node.js microservices built using the mono-repo strategy and leveraging the Yarn workspaces concept. Each microservice runs in its isolated Docker container, and Kubernetes orchestrates the deployment, providing scalability and efficiency.

## Features

This suite offers the following features:

1. **Enforce DRY Principles**: Collocating code encourages code sharing, reduces duplication, and saves time by building on existing boilerplate or reusable functionality.

2. **Collaboration**: Working within the same repository facilitates learning from peers, enabling the adoption of good coding practices and the avoidance of bad ones.

3. **Centralized Development Chores**: Manage common files like `.gitignore` centrally from the root directory, reducing unnecessary repetitions in the codebase.

4. **Easily Integrate Development Automation**: Task runner configurations and docker-compose can be managed from the root directory, simplifying the automation of repetitive workflows.

5. **Code Sharing Anywhere**: Publish and import organization-scoped libraries to the npm registry with `yarn publish` and `yarn add <@microservices-suite/foo>`.

6. **Easily Containerize and Scale**: Decouple every microservice to scale individually. Leveraging the `no-hoist Yarn workspace` feature and smart scripts enables efficient packaging of microservices into containers.

## Technologies Used

- **Yarn Workspaces**: Simplifies managing multiple packages within a single repository, encouraging code sharing, reducing duplication, and making it easier to handle dependencies and scripts.
  
- **Docker Containers**: Provides lightweight, portable, and self-sufficient containers for packaging and deploying microservices.

### Alpine Images

Alpine images are renowned for their minimalistic footprint, occupying merely **~5MB** of storage space. This incredibly small size makes them an ideal choice for use in constrained environments, such as your favorite smartwatch ⌚️. The primary challenge addressed by this project is the optimization of image builds for Continuous Integration (CI) and production environments through the utilization of the slimmest possible images.

#### Key Strategies:

- **Multi-Stage Builds**: We employ simple Docker constructs like multi-stage builds to optimize our image size.

### Hoisting and Symlinking

While these practices promote the DRY (Don't Repeat Yourself) principle, they pose a threat to our objective of achieving minimized images. To mitigate this, we leverage symlinking, selectively copying only the `node_modules` generated by non-hoisted workspaces. These are optimized to consume less disk space, ensuring that only the essential shared libraries required by a specific service are included, thereby maintaining the slim profile of our images.

### Docker & Node Best Practices

For an in-depth guide and best practices on using Docker with Node.js, visit the [Docker & Node Best Practices](https://github.com/nodejs/docker-node/blob/main/docs/BestPractices.md) repository.

### Kubernetes (k8s)

Kubernetes offers automated deployment, scaling, and management of containerized applications, ensuring reliability and scalability.

# Getting Started

Welcome to our project! To ensure a smooth setup and development experience, ensure you have the following tools installed on your machine:

- **Docker:** For containerization and managing containerized applications. We love [💚alpine images <small,simple,secure>](https://alpinelinux.org/) for the simplic. You can read about the specific flavor [here](https://github.com/nodejs/docker-node/blob/main/README.md#how-to-use-this-image)
- **Task Runner Automation Tool:** For task automation and workflow management.
- **Node.js:** As the runtime environment for executing the application code.
- At the project <service_root> create `.env`, `.env.dev` and `.env.staging` files and copy `environment variables` from the `.env.example` file

## Running Services

This project uses a Task Runner Automation Tool to streamline the process of starting services in both development and production. Follow these steps to get your environment up and running:

### Production

To run a service in production:

```bash
task start:<service_name>
```

This command utilizes docker-compose to orchestrate containers and set up necessary networks using the docker-bridge default network.

### Development
For development purposes, use the following command to start a service, substituting <service_name> with the desired service:

```bash
task dev:<service_name>
```

The task runner will handle the setup, ensuring your service is ready for development.

### Running Services Without Docker
If you prefer not to use Docker, you can start services using alternative methods:

- For Production: Start the service with the PM2 engine by running:
```bash
task vanilla:start:<service_name>
```
- For Development: Use the Nodemon node engine for a more development-friendly environment:```bash

```bash
task vanilla:dev:<service_name>
```

Using Docker-Compose Directly
Should you need to use docker-compose directly for more control over the container orchestration, you can utilize the standard commands provided by Docker:

```bash
docker-compose up
docker-compose down
```

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! If you'd like to contribute to the Microservices Suite project, please follow these guidelines:

1. Fork the repository and clone it to your local machine.
2. Create a new branch for your feature or bug fix: `git checkout -b feat/<my-feature>` or `git checkout -b fix/<my-bug-fix>`.
3. Make your changes and make sure that tests pass.
4. Commit your changes using the Angular commit message convention:
For more details, please refer to the [Angular commit message convention](https://github.com/angular/angular/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md#commit).
5. Push to the branch: `git push origin feat/<my-feature>` or `git push origin fix/<my-bug-fix>`.
6. Submit a pull request detailing your changes.

Please ensure that your pull request adheres to the project's code style and conventions.

## License

This project is licensed under the [MIT License](LICENSE). Feel free to use, modify, and distribute this code for any purpose.

## Acknowledgements

We would like to thank the developers and contributors to the following technologies used in this project:

- Yarn workspaces
- Docker
- Kubernetes
